Docs: Add information about license expiration (#21578)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/enterprise/license-expiration.md

+++
title = "License Expiration"
description = ""
keywords = ["grafana", "licensing"]
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
parent = "enterprise"
weight = 8
+++

> # Expired License

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Expired license
```

Reviewer: Per the Documentation style guide, sentence case for all headings.

Reviewer: https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/master/contribute/style-guides/documentation-style-guide.md'

> If your license has expired, your Grafana admin needs to upload a new *license.jwt* file to the location in the `enterprise.license_path` directory (default your Grafana data directory). This file can be downloaded from your Grafana Cloud organization’s license page. Restart Grafana once the file is in place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your license has expired, then your Grafana admin needs to upload a new *license.jwt* file to the location in the `enterprise.license_path` directory (default is your Grafana data directory). This file can be downloaded from your Grafana Cloud organization’s license page. Restart Grafana once the file is in place.
```

Reviewer: This paragraph should actually be a task called Renew your license, organized as numbered steps.

> Although you'll be able to access most of Grafana as usual, some functionality will stop working when the license expires and a banner will appear informing all users that the license has expired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although you'll be able to access most of Grafana as usual, some functionality stops working when the license expires and a banner informs all users that the license has expired.
```

Reviewer: Use present tense whenever possible.

> You should replace your license as soon as possible. Running Grafana Enterprise with an expired license is unsupported and can lead to unexpected consequences.

> ## Datasource Permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Data source permissions
```

> - Your current data source permissions will keep working as expected, but you'll be unable to add new data source permissions until the license has been replaced.

Reviewer: Do you mean renewed rather than replaced?

Author: 🤔 Probably, yes. Technically you don't renew a license but rather replace it but that's really not relevant.

> - Your current data source permissions will keep working as expected, but you'll be unable to add new data source permissions until the license has been replaced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your current data source permissions will keep working as expected, but you'll be unable to add new data source permissions until the license has been replaced.
```

Reviewer: Do not make unordered lists with a single item.

## Reporting

- You won't be able to configure new reports or generate previews.

> - Scheduled reports will not be generated or sent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Scheduled reports are not generated or sent.
```

## SAML

> - SAML is not affected by an expired license.

Reviewer: Spell out acronyms on their first usage. What does SAML stand for?

Reviewer 2: We do not need to do that here, SAML is enough standard term.

Reviewer 2: But the heading could read SAML Authentication

Author: :+1: I agree that spelling out SAML would be _more_ confusing than not (sort of like HTML/JSON), but writing it out as `SAML authentication` makes sense.

Author: :+1: I agree that spelling out SAML would be _more_ confusing than not (sort of like HTML/JSON), but writing it out as `SAML authentication` makes sense.

> ## Enterprise Plugins 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enterprise plugins 
```

> - Enterprise plugins may stop working.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enterprise plugins might stop working.
```

> - Enterprise datasources may stop working.

Reviewer 2: Maybe change this to Enterprise Plugins

## Whitelabeling

> - The whitelabeling feature will be disabled.

Reviewer 2: From what I can tell this is usually written as "White labeling" . 

I would change the sentence to "White labeling will be disabled, meaning any white labeling options will not have any effect."

> - The white labeling feature will be disabled, meaning that any white labeling options will not have any effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The white labeling feature is turned off, meaning that any white labeling options have no effect.
```

```
[enterprise]
license_path = /path/to/your/license.jwt
```
The configuration file's location may also be overridden by the `GF_ENTERPRISE_LICENSE_PATH` environment variable.
2. Log in to your [Grafana.com](https://grafana.com/login) user and make sure you're in the correct organization in the dropdown at the top of the page.
3. Under the **Grafana Enterprise** section in the menu bar to the left, choose licenses and download the currently valid license with which you want to run Grafana. If you cannot see a valid license on Grafana.com, please contact your account manager at Grafana Labs to renew your subscription.
4. Replace the current `license.jwt`-file with the one you've just downloaded.
5. Restart Grafana.

## Data source permissions

Your current data source permissions will keep working as expected, but you'll be unable to add new data source permissions until the license has been renewed.

## Reporting

You won't be able to configure new reports or generate previews.
Scheduled reports are not generated or sent.

> ## SAML authentication

Reviewer 3: LDAP Background sync should be covered too.

Author: ✅ Added it

The configuration file's location may also be overridden by the `GF_ENTERPRISE_LICENSE_PATH` environment variable.
2. Log in to your [Grafana.com](https://grafana.com/login) user and make sure you're in the correct organization in the dropdown at the top of the page.
3. Under the **Grafana Enterprise** section in the menu bar to the left, choose licenses and download the currently valid license with which you want to run Grafana. If you cannot see a valid license on Grafana.com, please contact your account manager at Grafana Labs to renew your subscription.
4. Replace the current `license.jwt`-file with the one you've just downloaded.
5. Restart Grafana.

## Data source permissions

Your current data source permissions will keep working as expected, but you'll be unable to add new data source permissions until the license has been renewed.

## Reporting

- You're unable to configure new reports or generate previews.
- Scheduled reports are not generated or sent.

## SAML authentication

SAML is not affected by an expired license.

## LDAP authentication

- LDAP synchronization is not affected by an expired license.
- Enhanced LDAP debugging is unavailable.

## Enterprise plugins

> Enterprise plugins might stop working.

Reviewer: Might stop or will stop?

Author: Currently it depends on the plugin how it handles licenses, so might. Not sure what we'll do about that long-term.

Reviewer 3: I don't think any of them will stop working right now. There are no license checks afaik.

Reviewer: Um, do we really want to mention that? And is there an issue open for this?

Reviewer: For this PR, though, seems that the current wording is the best we can do given current functionality.

Reviewer 3: Agreed, let's merge it as is.
